---
title: My Friend is Gone (or: "Goodbye, Lincoln")
description: A reflection on loss, friendship, and getting bad news.
date: 2025-01-05
tags:
  - posts
  - life events
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

Man, friendship is a weird thing isn’t it. Especially in adulthood, especially when you’re a busy person with “responsibilities” and responsibilities; especially when you’re absorbed in trying to maintain your own immediate chaos engine; especially when the graph of people you know has become a sprawling organism of interconnected and disparate clumps and it just gets too damn hard to maintain awareness of every group and every branch and every individual you know.

Especially, especially when you have the types of friendships with people that are easy and that you can pick back up right where you left off no matter how much time has gone by. Those are the easy ones to let slip. Those are the ones you think don’t need as much maintenance. But that’s a trap. Every friendship needs maintenance, and the easy friendships deserve more of your attention, frankly. I don’t make the rules, I just know this stuff only becomes clear when you realize you’ve blown it.

Lincoln was my friend, a friend I’ve known for twenty damn years now and who I felt somewhat close with and who I always meant to get to know more, and spend more time with. He died of aggressive brain cancer a few days ago, after being diagnosed in April of last year. My friend, Lincoln, spent most of 2024 battling a terrible terminal illness _and I had no idea._ Some friend I must be.

The last time I even talked with him was almost exactly a year ago. I was checking in on him after a round of layoffs at his company and we were exchanging updates about life as we did every few months. I asked him what was going on with him outside of work and _silence_. I was preoccupied with my new job and my family and who knows what and I forgot to follow up. I wonder if he already knew something was wrong at that point. Doesn’t matter, really.

Seeing the outpouring of friends and family commenting on the social media posts about his passing have made it all the more apparent just how close with him I wasn’t. And I knew that, I didn’t consider myself in his inner circle necessarily, but we had history and shared experience and we talked about challenges in our lives frankly and openly. So I didn’t know much of his life beyond our friendship, but I knew him.

The thing is, Linc is the first of my chosen friends in adulthood that I’ve lost. I’ve had friends and family pass before but never a situation like this. It’s weird. I don’t know how to react. I’m gutted by his passing; anybody who met him would tell you he is one of the kindest, most generous, fun and genuine people they’ve ever known. He was a rare and special person; he brought light and laughter and joy to anybody who knew him. It’s no wonder people were drawn to him; that kind of joy and connection is hard to come by. I cared about him, and often thought of him, and even lamented that I couldn’t or didn’t make more of an effort to spend time with him.

But I’m also wrestling with the reality that I was several circles outside of his circle of close friends. And that’s fine. He always treated me like I was on the inside, but in many ways  don’t feel that I have the right to eulogize him (which, to be clear, this is absolutely not me doing) or grieve his loss in the way those nearest to him are.

So it’s weird. I feel like an outsider looking in on his life and seeing all of these folks near to him in abject sorrow and reckoning with the fact that I didn’t even know he had fucking brain cancer. What even is that. What kind of friend am I, I didn’t have the faintest notion he was dying. I didn’t reach out all year after January of 2023. I often meant to but always forgot. Fuck! I feel like an asshole. I’m sorry, Linc. I should have done more to check in on you.

We met at Oregon State University in the Graphic Design program. I was a fifth year senior (fifth due to changing majors away from Computer Science too far into my first year), and I was a TA for one of his 200-level design classes. While hanging out to offer critique and feedback on his class’ work we hit it off easily and established a friendship and very informal mentorship. Mostly though, we just joked around and talked design and video games and movies and pretended that I was the Dr. Cox* to his JD (we were both very big fans of “Scrubs,” but who wasn’t in 2007).

We stayed in touch after I graduated and I watched him flourish as a designer from a distance while my own design career dead ended and I shifted back to engineering. I watched his work get stronger and was so impressed by all that he did, and then he landed his dream job working in the gaming industry as a designer at Twitch. He actually did the damn thing, he got into the industry he wanted. And even though the work may not always have been as exciting or fulfilling as he might have liked, he was at a place he loved and inside of a community he loved and it was awesome to see him follow the path he wanted.

I remember him taking me out for coffee on a trip down to San Francisco to interview for a job with a tech company. He showed me around the Twitch offices, we talked careers and games and who even knows what. On a subsequent trip to SF well after I got that job, we grabbed dinner and games at a barcade  I’ve long since forgotten the name of and which no longer exists (thanks, pandemic). It was arguably the most friend-like thing we had done together up until that point, and I remember us talking more about life and dreams and goals, and afterward thinking how much easier it would be to maintain and foster a friendship if only I lived closer to him.

I spent a year and some change dabbling in streaming video games during 2020 and 2021. Linc was one of my earliest supporters and he regularly showed up to help people in my tiny chat feel welcome, crack wise at my expense, and generally just be present to try and help my channel grow. I also had a gaming podcast with my friend Scott (because it’s a requirement for guys in their late 30s to have a podcast), and Linc absolutely floored us with some amazing artwork to use for the show. We were working toward a full redesign of my buddy Scott’s game reviews website, that Linc was going to design and I would build. It was exciting and fun and we were both too swamped with our other obligations to follow through with it but it was a great idea, man. You should have been there.

He moved back up to Oregon, maybe a twelve minute drive from my house. Twelve minutes. I resolved to try and get together with him more now that he was close by. How hard could it be? He’s right there, hanging out should be easy! Except I’m a homebody and I feel guilty about leaving my family at home for my own personal satisfaction (I blame that on the pandemic as well), and frankly it’s too easy to say “oh its just hard to juggle a social life around kids.”

Just a few short weeks after my twin boys were born, Linc came over to visit us and meet the kids. It was nice, and I remember feeling exhausted and weirdly self conscious about being a full-on dad in his late 30s and not the “cooler”* version of myself I was a mere six years prior. I hoped, in that moment, that I would make time to see him, and I also knew that I probably wasn’t going to be seeing much of anybody I knew for the next long while until the boys were older and leaving one parent to care for three young kids for any amount of time didn’t feel like a rude and irresponsible thing to do.**

We at least chatted online here and there. But I also got wrapped up in my own stuff and between stress at work and stress at home and barely any time for socializing or personal outlets, the distance in our friendship grew. This kind of ebb and flow in friendships is normal but the timing here was just so bad. For every time I thought about reaching out to him just to say “Hi,” and didn’t, it adds a stinging pinprick to the hurt of his loss. There are a lot of pinpricks. Dozens of them. It sucks.

I feel guilty about not being there for him more, not being a better friend to him. I don’t even know if he wanted or needed that; he certainly had a lot of people who cared about him. He people he touched are innumerable; the impact of his kindness and joy and genuine enthusiasm was so far reaching. What’s the stupid cliche thing people always say? “This kind of thing always happens to the nicest people?,” or some variant of that sentiment, right?

That idea always sounds hollow when it’s expressed now, or of another era when people said nice-sounding shit just to sound nice, and I hate saying it because it’s inauthentic and also cancer kills indiscriminately and also _fuck cancer_, seriously. But in this case it feels really true. I can think of nobody kinder, nobody more deserving of a long, fulfilling life, and of course this guy is the one who gets an inoperable brain tumor. Of course. What a shit deal.

I found out via Facebook. Actually not even Facebook, my buddy Jeff sent me a message asking me if I knew what was going on with the posts on Lincoln’s profile talking about him posthumously. I had to go look for myself. And I learned some of the details by checking back on comments on one of those posts. It seems like, as some small comfort, this was news to many. But still; what kind of friend was I, if this was how I was finding out.

I’m not going to try to pretend to know what last year was like for Linc. I’ve been around cancer and terminal illness enough to make some guesses, but I won’t guess at his motivations, his thoughts, feelings, his rationale for who he chose to tell. It’s not mine to speculate at, and it doesn’t matter. I trust that he made the right calls for himself and for what he was going through, and that’s all that does matter. I’m not feeling sorry for myself, I just reflexively go straight to “what more could I have done for him.”

It’s kind of stupid, right? Surely if he was in need of more he would have reached out, probably? And isn’t that impulse somewhat self-serving? Like yeah I’m sad for my friend and I wish I could have helped in some small way, but doesn’t that partially come from a desire for inclusion and a place of making myself feel better? Yeah. It is that stuff. That’s not my intent, I genuinely want to have brought him comfort in his last months, but I have to reconcile that’s as much about me as it is about him. That feels bad. It’s part of accepting his loss, but it feels bad. Like I can’t just let it be about him.

I don’t like centering myself in other people’s stories or hardships. I see people do it all the time and it drives me nuts. I know this is how we relate to things. I know it’s about contextualizing experiences, and in the case of a friend dying, it’s kind of _the_ way we convey how much somebody meant to us. So it’s fine to do, I guess, but I don’t like it. And for Lincoln, somebody who made a point of lifting others up and prioritizing others needs, it feels wrong.

Look at how many people whose lives he made better though, just by being in them. He certainly improved mine, just by being a small part of it. He was one of _those_ people; the kind of person whose spark left an afterglow everywhere he went. I regret not knowing him better, but I’m grateful for the chance to have known him at all; it was a gift, and I will remember him always.

Goodbye, Linc. I miss you. Thank you for being my friend.

*The idea of me being anything like Dr. Perry Cox is laughable, given I am probably the least scary or intimidating person anybody has ever met; people who know me literally laugh when I get mad, which doesn’t happen often anyway but it also doesn’t feel great! Also I’m not as witty. John C. McGinley was so fun to watch in that role.

*”Cooler” by my own accounting, not anybody else’s. Let’s not pretend for a second that I was ever actually cool, we all know that’s just a punchline

*I should talk to a therapist about this, probably, and also many other things. I have a list, actually! I will not be sharing it at this time